Webtech notes Finals:

Server-Side Scripts
	are languages, codes or script that builds your websites that are not seen, 
	providing good interaction between the website and the user/ client.

Server-Side Scripting
	is a method of creating a script that allows a client to make request
	to the server.

Frameworks
	a layered structure that provides a standard guideline that provides functionality that can be edited by the coder.

Server-side web frameworks (a.k.a. "web application frameworks")
	are software frameworks that makes the work of the developer of a website easier.
	It provides tools and libraries that simplifies common web development tasks.

	Functionalities that a web frameworks can do:
		Work directly with HTTP requests and responses
		Route requests to the appropriate handler
		Make it easy to access data in the request
		Abstract and simplify database access
		Rendering data

Popular Server-Side Frameworks:
	Django(Python)			Python framework
	Flask (Python)			Python framework
	Express (Node.js/JavaScript)	front-end script
	Ruby on Rails (Ruby)		Ruby framework
	ASP.NET				Microsoft framework
	
Java Platforms
	Java EE	(Java Enterprise Edition)
		is the standard used in community-driven enterprise software that is contributed 
		by organization or individuals in the commercial, in the industry.
		Sample API:
		    servlet
		    websocket

	Java SE (Java Standard Edition)
		lets you develop and deploy Java applications on desktops and servers.
		Sample API:	
		    applet
		    awt
		    rmi
		    jdbc
		    swing
		    collections

	Java ME (Micro Edition)
		provides a robust, flexible environment for applications running on mobile.
		Sample API:	
		    Wireless Messaging
		    Java ME Web Services
		    Security and Trust Services API
		    Location
		    Mobile XML API

Java Servlets
	-java objects that are intended to play the role of server components in Client-Server communications.
	-java program that give capabilities or functionalities to run a server.
	-handles clients request by generating responses to such request.

Servlet LifeCycle
	Instantiation
	Initializationx
	Request Handling
	Destruction

HTTP Servlet
	Java servlet used to handle HTTP request and HTTP response.

Web Container 
	a part of web server that manages the components like servlets.

The service() method	 Get, Delete, Options, Post, Put, or Trace
the term service method is used for any method in a servlet class that provides a service to a client.

	HTTP Servlet Request
		object representation of HTTP request
		A request contains data passed between a client and the servlet.
			Parameters
			Object-valued attributes
			Information about the protocol used to communicate the request
			Information relevant to localization
		HTTP servlets are passed an HTTP request object, HttpServletRequest, which contains the request URL, HTTP headers, query string, and so on.

	HTTP Servlet Response
		object representation of HTTP response
		HTTP response objects, HttpServletResponse, have fields representing HTTP headers such as the following:
			Status codes
			Cookies

PHP

a Server Scripting Language

Why do we use PHP?
	- Commonly used
	- Free
	- a powerful tool in making dynamic websites
	- object oriented proggramming language


Data Types

    String
    Integer
    Float (floating point numbers - also called double)
    Boolean
    Array
    Object
    NULL
    Resource
	
PHP variable scope	A variable starts with the $ sign
	local		ex. $x = 5;
	global		ex. global $x = 5;
	static		ex. static $x = 5;

PHP Form Handling
	The PHP superglobals $_GET and $_POST are used to collect form-data.
*String Declaration
	'single Quotation' cannot have interpolation
	"double Quotation" can have interpolation

PHP Database Access
	
    MySQLi extension
    PDO

AJAX 
	AJAX = Asynchronous JavaScript and XML.
